# alert-monitor
The central alert system which captures events generated by any system or user triggered, and raise an alert according to alert configuration

## Problem Statement

- problem statement is present under [Alert Monitor](https://github.com/purush7/alert-monitor/blob/main/docs/approach.md)

## Run

```bash
make local  ## for local setup (db)
make all ## to start the server
docker logs alert-monitor -f  ## for logs
```

## Testing

- postman collection is present under `/docs/postman`
- check logs through the cmd `docker logs alert-monitor -f`


## Solution:

At a high level, the service operates as follows:

    Event Processing:
        Whenever a new event is received, the service evaluates the alert configuration associated with that event.

    Asynchronous Notifications:
        If an alert condition is met, the service dispatches notifications to the relevant dispatchers asynchronously. This approach leverages goroutines, which are lightweight and efficient, allowing the system to handle a high volume of dispatches concurrently.

    Scalability Enhancements:
        For improved scalability, integrating a messaging queue is recommended. This setup allows the service to handle high burst loads by queuing incoming events.
        Additionally, using an OLAP database like ClickHouse can enhance performance. Unlike traditional relational databases, OLAP systems are optimized for high-speed aggregation queries, making them more suitable for quickly retrieving event counts and performing complex analyses and there isn't any usecase to maintain relational among the data

    Current Implementation:
        To meet the project's requirements and constraints within a short timeframe, the current implementation uses a RESTful API with PostgreSQL. While this approach is straightforward and effective for the task at hand, future improvements could include adopting a messaging queue and OLAP database to handle larger scales and more complex scenarios efficiently.